
=pod

=head1 NAME

	openca-ocspd - OCSP Daemon

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<openca-ocspd>
[B<-d>]
[B<-p n>]
[B<-b address>]
[B<-c file>]
[B<-md digest>]
[B<-k passwd>]
[B<-i passin>]
[B<-e engine>]
[B<-r chroot_dir>]
[B<-v>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<openca-ocspd> is an RFC2560 compliant OCSPD responder. It can
be used to verify the status of a certificate using OCSP clients
(such as Mozilla/Netscape7).

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-d>

detach the main process from the calling process.

=item B<-p n>

specifies the port to bind to. Default is 2560.

=item B<-b address>

specifies the IP address to bind to. Default behaviour is to listen
to every IP available (equal to '*' value).

=item B<-c file>

specifies the configuration file to be loaded. Default file loaded
is B</usr/local/etc/ocspd.conf>.

=item B<-md digest>

specifies the digest to be used when generating responses. Default is
sha1.

=item B<-k passwd>

specifies the password to be used when loading the private key.

=item B<-i passin>

the key password source. For more information about the format of B<arg>
see the B<PASS PHRASE ARGUMENTS> section in L<openssl(1)|openssl(1)>.

=item B<-engine id>

specifying an engine (by it's unique B<id> string) will cause the responder
to attempt to obtain a functional reference to the specified engine,
thus initialising it if needed. The engine will then be set as the default
for all available algorithms.

=item B<-r chroot_dir>

Chroot the application into the specified directory.

=item B<-v>

this prints extra details about the operations being performed.

=back

=head1 NOTES

=over 4

Actually not extensive testing has been carried out, anyway this daemon
is reported to work with Mozilla/Netscape.

To reload the certificate's db simply send a SIGHUP to the main process
( kill -s SIGHUP pid ).

=back

=head1 EXAMPLE

=over 4

	openca-ocspd -c contrib/ocspd.conf 

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

=over 4

Massimiliano Pala <madwolf@openca.org>

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 4

L<openca(3)>,L<openssl(1)>, L<ocsp(1)>

=cut


